Ternary content addressable memory (TCAM) is one of the most effective methods for high-speed data searching. TCAMs have become indispensable in networking infrastructure or cloud centers due to their deterministic search time. Despite excellent performance and lookup table size, the application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) TCAM costs a massive power supply and is impossible to configure. Field Programmable Gate Arrays or FPGAs, which consume less power and easily reconfigure, have become the alternative solution for integrating TCAM. Many methods have been introduced throughout the years, such as using registers, RAMs, or LUTRAMs to implement TCAM; they also suffer a large resource consumption when trying to implement large TCAM, mainly caused by finite resources. DDR-SDRAM-based data lookup circuit provides high-performance and economic packet inspections; however, it does not support ternary values, which makes it not versatile in real-life systems. This paper presents a novel SDRAM-based TCAM architecture on FPGAs with a Data-Collision approach. We propose an advancement in the Data-Collision algorithm for SDRAM compatibility to implement our TCAM. Hardware implementation on the Intel Cyclone V FPGA device using the embedded HPS DDR3 SDRAM shows that our design is independent of on-chip memory and is easily configurable, resource-saving, and high-performance. The proposed architecture is the first external memory-based TCAM on FPGA capable of a 128Mbyte lookup table. 
